---
layout: post
title:	Future
date:	2021-04-23
category: Solutions
author:	Peeyush Singh
---

### Future

Future is complex, un-predictable, with luck and risks. If you have a choice, then good! 

I hate to say about linear lifestyle and thinking; since we are born as human - we have to face outcomes of a human as we are in a human system. (It is too hard to admin the wild truths)

I don't know about others! What things are dear to me, I want to do that! Writing this is a clarity. 

- Making company is shit, if there is no other way to do it.
- Working for company or working as a robot is shit, be creative.
- Family time is most important! That is happiness in present. 
- Inventions/Hobby for scheduled spare time/free time or get it done with people! Be creative :smile: 
- Learning is shit, until there is no usage! Especially ones which has no use soon by you.
- Time is most precious, don't live it doing someone else task. Reduce it to minimum, get it done super fast! 



I don't know about you. But I want to live in a future, where people have basic necessity set. So they don't play much zero sum games, even syllabus focusing on uniqueness. Love is default for a child, but this love not outside becomes a pain! I want people to love, and care for each other in general - because why not? Humans change, time change, why shouldn't relationships? Most repeated/mundane work to be automated, so humans can do things just for fun even engineering. 



The question comes; doesn't this make the society as thin or weak? Answer is yes and no! Human will continue to suffer, because they are greedy and have emotions. Thus there will still be terrorism or crimes, but very less! (because of automated rules based systems)

Diseases will be cured much faster, yes replication computing and immutable blockchains! 



But do you think these things are possible? Everyone has different! But as a human; I would like to have more FREEDOM. (freedom from mind)
