---
layout: post
title: convenience is not for sake of progress
date:	2026-02-22
category: Blog
draft: false
author: Peeyush Singh
---


When I talk to developers about the work, many of them implement something because of this work "convenience". 
Rather than thinking what is right or wrong. If you ask them more, they'll say they don't have the time constraint! 
But are they actually saving the time? 

Let me walk you through one incident that I had. When I was relaviley young developer I also sometimes like this. 

Due to this, I don't read more than it is required. I just read what my supervisors has told. Not more , not less. (within 1-2 years of working)

I haven't seen any issue, with that in my limited experience. UNTIL!!!!!


-----

Suddenly, I had to do a workshop for nodejs. I was showcasing everyone, how easy it is to write and deploy code in 
our platform (some aws lambda alternative solution). Now, that day when I pushed the code (passing sanity checks etc) and build was success. 
But when it get deployed, everything failed! Yes, in the workshop itself. How fucking embarassing!!! 30 People come to attend your working and all they see something , that they are not supposed too. Murphy's Law, this is the first time in my professional life over a big stage like this observed. 

> Whatever can go wrong, will go Wrong! - Murphy's law, quoted from Intersteller 

I had to say in the workshop, that this things happens and let's take a break which definitely swayed away some folks live. Being very fast to debug, i found the issue in node-modules, one of my package got updated yesterday. (Commit difference previous vs current)

Now this can be avoided, if one uses npm.lock file, but you know what "convenience" - why to use it. 

I can give easily another example - there was a solution that I need transfer some data from dc1 to dc2. Now, I immediatey started resuming the script. BBy morning, only 5% data got migrated. WTF! 8 hours and joke. I went again, and did minor optimization to speed this up. After 3-4 hours, another 3%. It was better but not that great. I did modified the script again, and after 2h again another 2%. Until, I finally decided to just go away and re-think the approach. There's something known as watermark algorithm, I knew at the back of my head all this time. But thanks to "convenience", I didn't. So, what happend I ended wasting one evening to another evening - before finally fixing this. 

You're not saving time, you're wasting time! Performance issues, are not taken for granted. One should be able to showcase their creatives, like proud. I have friends, who used to show me what they have done (over video call, due to company's privacy shits). Now, if you're trying to fix this and that - either it is a bug or performance issue. This couldn't have been there, if it has to be thought throught well and before. Although , somethings are still unexpected and can happen. But initial designs and thinking, or pseudo code is always there to make sure we don't fall in the same trap. Checkout codecoevrage etc, if you're begginer. (we used to have codeshev to help us , figure out that we're stupid back then when some test case fails) 

It's not about codeshef also, it's about some mentor or pattern to teach that whatever you're writing is not supreme , until you know your pros and cons in your style and thinking. All these things, and experiences are useful to gain hard-earned experienced which is really priceless! Because what you know other doesn't have a single idea apart from just developing that page or backend. 

But sometimes, you can't escape convience - because you're lazy. Aleast be selective! 
